SQL employs a number of standard command keywords that are integral to interact with databases. Keywords in SQL provide instructions as to what action should be performed.

Here are some of the primary SQL keywords:

**SELECT**: This keyword retrieves data from a database. For example,

```SQL
SELECT * FROM Customers;
```

In the above statement `*` indicates that all records should be retrieved from the `Customers` table.

**FROM**: Used in conjunction with `SELECT` to specify the table from which to fetch data.

**WHERE**: Used to filter records. Incorporating a WHERE clause, you might specify conditions that must be met. For example,

```SQL
SELECT * FROM Customers WHERE Country='Germany';
```

**INSERT INTO**: This command is used to insert new data into a database.

```SQL
INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerID, CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode, Country)
VALUES ('Cardinal','Tom B. Erichsen','Skagen 21','Stavanger','4006','Norway');
```

**UPDATE**: This keyword updates existing data within a table. For example,

```SQL
UPDATE Customers SET ContactName='Alfred Schmidt', City='Frankfurt' WHERE CustomerID=1;
```

**DELETE**: This command removes one or more records from a table. For example,

```SQL
DELETE FROM Customers WHERE CustomerName='Alfreds Futterkiste';
```

**CREATE DATABASE**: As implied by its name, this keyword creates a new database.

```SQL
CREATE DATABASE mydatabase;
```

**ALTER DATABASE**, **DROP DATABASE**, **CREATE TABLE**, **ALTER TABLE**, **DROP TABLE**: These keywords are used to modify databases and tables.

Remember that SQL is not case sensitive, meaning keywords can be written in lower case. The convention is to write them in ALL CAPS for readability. There are many more keywords in SQL, but these are some of the most common.

- `SELECT` - extracts data from a database
- `UPDATE` - updates data in a database
- `DELETE` - deletes data from a database
- `INSERT INTO` - inserts new data into a database
- `CREATE DATABASE` - creates a new database
- `ALTER DATABASE` - modifies a database
- `CREATE TABLE` - creates a new table
- `ALTER TABLE` - modifies a table
- `DROP TABLE` - deletes a table
- `CREATE INDEX` - creates an index (search key)
- `DROP INDEX` - deletes an index

# SQL Select Statement
The `SELECT` statement is used to select data from a database.

**Example:** 
```sql
SELECT CustomerName, City FROM Customers;
```

## Syntax
```sql
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_;
```
Here, column1, column2, ... are the _field names_ of the table you want to select data from. The table_name represents the name of the _table_ you want to select data from.

# SQL SELECT DISTINCT Statement
The `SELECT DISTINCT` statement is used to return only distinct (different) values.(remove duplication)

**Example:**
Select all the different countries from the "Customers" table:
```sql
SELECT DISTINCT Country FROM Customers;
```
Inside a table, a column often contains many duplicate values; and sometimes you only want to list the different (distinct) values.

## Syntax
```sql
SELECT DISTINCT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_;
```

If you omit the `DISTINCT` keyword, the SQL statement returns the "Country" value from all the records of the "Customers" table. Event the duplicates.

# SQL Where Clause
The `WHERE` clause is used to filter records.
It is used to extract only those records that fulfill a specified condition.

**Example**
Select all customers from Mexico:
```SQl
SELECT * FROM Customers  
WHERE Country='Mexico';
```

## Syntax
```sql
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_  
WHERE _condition_;
```

# SQL ORDER BY Keyword
The `ORDER BY` keyword is used to sort the result-set in ascending or descending order.

**Example:**
```sql
SELECT * FROM Products  
ORDER BY Price;
```
It will return the value in default (Ascending) form.
## Syntax
`ASC` - Ascending
`DESC` - Descending
```sql
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_  
ORDER BY _column1, column2, ..._ ASC|DESC;
```

# SQL AND Operator
The `WHERE` clause can contain one or many `AND` operators. The `AND` operator is used to filter records based on more than one condition, like if you want to return all customers from Spain that starts with the letter 'G':

**Example:**
Select all customers from Spain that starts with the letter 'G':
```sql
SELECT *  
FROM Customers  
WHERE Country = 'Spain' AND CustomerName LIKE 'G%';
```

## Syntax
```sql
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_  
WHERE _condition1_ AND _condition2_ AND _condition3 ..._;
```

## AND vs OR
The `AND` operator displays a record if _all_ the conditions are TRUE.

The `OR` operator displays a record if _any_ of the conditions are TRUE.

# SQL OR Operator
The `WHERE` clause can contain one or more `OR` operators.

The `OR` operator is used to filter records based on more than one condition, like if you want to return all customers from Germany but also those from Spain:

**Example:**
Select all customers from Germany or Spain:
```sql
SELECT *  
FROM Customers  
WHERE Country = 'Germany' OR Country = 'Spain';
```

## Syntax 
```SQL
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_  
WHERE _condition1_ OR _condition2_ OR _condition3 ..._;
```

# SQL NOT Operator
The `NOT` operator is used in combination with other operators to give the opposite result, also called the negative result.

In the select statement below we want to return all customers that are NOT from Spain:

**Example:**
Select only the customers that are NOT from Spain:
```sql
SELECT * FROM Customers  
WHERE NOT Country = 'Spain';
```
In the example above, the `NOT` operator is used in combination with the `=` operator, but it can be used in combination with other comparison and/or logical operators. See examples below.

## Syntax
```sql
SELECT _column1_, _column2, ..._  
FROM _table_name_  
WHERE NOT _condition_;
```

# SQL INSERT INTO Statement
The `INSERT INTO` statement is used to insert new records in a table.

**INSERT INTO Syntax**

It is possible to write the `INSERT INTO` statement in two ways:

1. Specify both the column names and the values to be inserted:
## Syntax
```sql
INSERT INTO _table_name_ (_column1_, _column2_, _column3_, ...)  
VALUES (_value1_, _value2_, _value3_, ...);
```

2. If you are adding values for all the columns of the table, you do not need to specify the column names in the SQL query. However, make sure the order of the values is in the same order as the columns in the table. Here, the `INSERT INTO` syntax would be as follows:
```sql
INSERT INTO _table_name_   VALUES (_value1_, _value2_, _value3_, ...);`
```

**Example:**
The following SQL statement inserts a new record in the "Customers" table:
```sql
INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode, Country)  
VALUES ('Cardinal', 'Tom B. Erichsen', 'Skagen 21', 'Stavanger', '4006', 'Norway');
```

## Insert Data Only in Specified Columns

It is also possible to only insert data in specific columns.

The following SQL statement will insert a new record, but only insert data in the "CustomerName", "City", and "Country" columns (CustomerID will be updated automatically):

**Example:**
```sql
INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerName, City, Country)  
VALUES ('Cardinal', 'Stavanger', 'Norway');
```

## Insert Multiple Rows

It is also possible to insert multiple rows in one statement.

To insert multiple rows of data, we use the same `INSERT INTO` statement, but with multiple values:
```sql
INSERT INTO Customers (CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode, Country)  
VALUES  
('Cardinal', 'Tom B. Erichsen', 'Skagen 21', 'Stavanger', '4006', 'Norway'),  
('Greasy Burger', 'Per Olsen', 'Gateveien 15', 'Sandnes', '4306', 'Norway'),  
('Tasty Tee', 'Finn Egan', 'Streetroad 19B', 'Liverpool', 'L1 0AA', 'UK');
```

Make sure you separate each set of values with a comma `,`.

